# MAGBO-algorithm
The ability to convert solar energy into valuable electricity through the use of photovoltaic (PV) technology is essential to the future of the globe. However, the process of modeling PV cells still requires determining the unknown characteristics of the cells, which is an optimization problem. The complexity of this task arises from its multimodal and nonlinear nature. This research proposes a multi-strategy gradient-based algorithm (MAGBO) to estimate the parameters of solar PV systems. In order to enhance both its local and global capabilities, MAGBO implements a modified gradient search rule (MGSR) that is based on the quasi-Newton approach. In addition to this, it makes use of a new refresh operator (NRO) to enhance the overall quality of the solutions and the algorithm's capacity for exploration. Furthermore, it employs a crossover mechanism to maintain a balance between exploitation and variation in the population. The effectiveness of MAGBO in finding so-lutions to global optimization issues was demonstrated by numerical testing using CEC2021 test functions. The proposed method was then used to optimize the parameter extraction of static solar PV models, resulting in an ideal global solution. The MAGBO method showed the most accurate results for double-diode and single-diode modules, with the root mean square error RMSEs of 9.82525420E-04 and 9.8602190E-04, respectively. It also gave high accuracy for the Pho-towatt-PWP model, the STM6-40/36 model, and the PVM 752 model with the root mean square error RMSEs 2,425210000E-03, 1,729814570E-03, and 1.729814570E-03, respectively. The proposed method outperforms other existing precision, reliability, and performance techniques, making it a reliable tool for analyzing solar cell and PV module data
